Oh
awesome hello and welcome to the IP FS
oh hey before we begin let's see um
welcome to the IP FS weekly call let's
see it seems like we might have some
sound problems Jordan can you hear us
now
Jordan your mute
can you unmute yourself Jordan
I can hear you now
I think yeah and we can hear you great
sorry
resume wanted to use my microphone and
as my speaker I don't know why doesn't
make any sense that happens
let's see here are the notes and Jim
will be taking notes for us today so
thank you Jim I don't see any items for
us to go over so we will begin right
away
with Jordan and Mark and they will be
talking about tally lab which is a
computer app that uses ipfs so I'm
really excited but before we begin
shorten can you unmute yourself please
yes excellent okay um so would you like
to jump in yeah
cork is actually going to be a few
minutes late but he will be doing your
necessary in a hot SEC there should be a
green button in the bottom up you got it
awesome conference are you listening
okay I'm actually gonna jump out of here
and do a little demo here for a second
but um so telling lab we describe it as
a data diary app which a lot of people
are like what is that and basically it
is a way to collect and analyze data
which sounds really open-ended because
it is um a lot of people when they start
using it their immediate thought is to
use it to track health things like
symptoms or medications they're taking
supplements things like that
but you can really track anything that
is a thing that happens at a moment in
time so it's like a very open-ended time
series data platform so you can track
household chores or bird sightings or
client hours you spent on client work
just really anything that happens at a
moment or for a duration in time is fair
game but what we kind of add on top of
that is the ability to correlate those
things so whatever it is you're tracking
presumably you're tracking it because
you want to figure something out about
your life not just for fun although
tracking data totally fun on its own
we have a lot of tools in the app that
allow you to then say okay you know I've
been tracking my chores and I've been
tracking bird sightings and it turns out
that every time I sweep my kitchen I see
a blue jay in my backyard cool like
things like that obviously that is a
ridiculous example but I'm guessing
wouldn't actually have it but who knows
you can use Sally lamb to find out maybe
there's like secret magic in the world
but we don't know about okay so in the
sock I'm gonna talk about I'm gonna do a
little demo show you guys what I live in
some of those then we're gonna talk
about how we're currently using idea
bats which isn't a somewhat limited way
and then we're going to talk about how
we'll be using it going forward
which isn't it much more for best way so
right now so you guys are seeing Todd
now there's render a browser on the
desktop most people use it on their
mobile devices
um primarily but use it anywhere it is a
progressive web app so all you gotta do
is go to another lab comm slash app and
use it so the example I'm going to use
here is a common one that where you're
trying to figure out if you have a food
allergy so the hypothesis here is that
chocolate gives you headaches which
chocolate gives me headaches so not I
have to eat a lot of it forgive me
headache don't be sad I only discovered
this like 15 years a long time ago when
I always actually working on the legs
chocolate
website and they sent us just like so
much chocolate love you guys here's a
ton of chocolate and I ate so much
chocolate and I started getting
migraines like every day and it took me
longer than it should have to figure out
that like you know eating pounds of dark
chocolate every day's like yeah that's
not gonna cause any more problems not a
good idea right but I think that we're
gonna use
and we've set up two collections of
things totality here so in here I have
my chocolate alley and you know some
other miscellaneous food things and I
want to be tracking as well but in this
case the focus is chocolate and I have
eaten chocolate 39 times since I started
racquetball and you can go see
individual stats for a single pilot I
don't track it at most of you
chocolate twice in a day
Lisa zero time very cautious about my
chocolate and all I have to do is um
Jordan I don't know about everyone else
but I can't hear you clearly
oh okay I'm sorry did that happen
suddenly her house up in the case for
anyone else yeah it sounds like you were
more far from the microphone so maybe
you am I gonna find about the covered by
or Sutter or something but now I get we
can I hear you perfect okay okay yeah no
it's better thank you okay so I'm
tracking my chocolate and then under
symptoms
I enjoy yeah thanks
shocker and similarly I can just add
headache here I could also have set up
the headache tally to be a timer if I
wanted to know how long my headaches
lasted and in that case this plus sign
would be able to play button when you
hit play and start the timer than them
but my headache and is I could it's off
but the really exciting part is we go
over to the aptly named Cora leader here
and look at the data charted together so
here
hey chocolate got henyk and look how
amazing we correlated that is I in no
way doctors this data to look at that
correlated guys so presumably your data
would be a lot noisier than this but for
the sake of the example I made it looked
pretty clear yes it looks like not every
one of my headaches it's caused by
chocolate but everytime I hate chocolate
I get I couldn't be clearer with that
okay so that's just a basic sense of how
the app works there's a lot of other
detail in here but you see does mark
join him very buddy okay great um why
don't I go back to the slides and then
mark you can tell man the slides and you
can talk okay sounds good to me
[Music]
no slides yet okay let's welcome mark
yeah thank you thank you just looking
through the roster here right now hi
Alan hi David yeah I Porsche that's all
I think I apologize if I didn't
recognize anybody else okay great so
anyway
okay so um we knew if we wanted to use
IP FS for this project because of the
decentralized nature of it because for
better or worse it was just something
that was adjacent to but not directly
related to blockchain database so we
were just looking at something kind of
high level something that would just
store data when you asked it to store
data retrieved it when you asked for
treatment if it was available and things
like that and for the most part
everything was on the user's device
except for when they wanted to either
switch devices or you know have a backup
and restore from a backup if they got a
new phone or a new laptop or something
like that or in the case of certain
mobile devices if the OS just decides to
randomly wipe your data which has
happened a couple of times with iOS
particular and just recently with
Android you know the phone's hard drive
space is getting low I guess the local
storage not just regular local storage
not just like the key value store in the
browser but the index DB all of those
seem like they're just candidates for
removal without asking the user or
anything like that so we had to build in
a backup to make sure if something like
that happened then we'd be able to
restore people's data because in the end
I'm sure Jordan mentioned this this is
meant to be a consumer app so it's we
make a lot of we put a lot of effort
into making sure that people that aren't
on this fall that know about ipfs to
know about this stuff can still use it
so this is this is part of it and that
the slide that you're looking at here is
basically what is stored on the user's
device so it's all encrypted using the
Lib sodium libraries and for those of
you who are the nine-oh they're
different keys so we can restore them
using a 32 byte seed so you'll always
have the same key pair you'll always be
able to encrypt and decrypt the same
data set and so on and so forth so
that's that our steps here so we use IP
and s currently to do the backups we
store a new IP FS key using the public
key of the user not the ipfs public key
with a diff Hellman public key so the
one that we generate we call that the
tally lab keys we stir we use that as
the name of the key which gives us the
APNs name because they're just it's it's
bundled there together we put all the
tallies and all the collections up in a
nice package unpin the old one if it
exists at the new one pin the new one
and then publish it so all that is well
and good except that as everybody knows
that IPS can be slow sometimes
so Jordan you want to talk through that
workflow there or yeah the previous
slide here this is everything involved
in this which is maybe not that
interesting to everyone as well but um
it involves sort of like the entire
process like across page loads of how we
create a backup basically and so to what
Mark was saying I feel like maybe if I'm
gonna go to the next one because I feel
like it's kind of important but we ended
up making a couple of end points that we
maintain on our own that allow some of
these processes to continue even if even
across sort of like page sessions or
review sessions for the user because
they were taking long enough that we
couldn't just like make the user sit on
the page like here hang out for five
minutes well we won't be make this all
so we created a core sort of like
intermediate layer on the server there's
sort of traditional API endpoints that
basically say they start this process
and then as the user is continuing to
work around the app and do so we send
we're listening for the answers these
calls and as soon as they come back we
can proceed through the process so that
kind of looks like this there's
there's a mixture of things we created
and I PMS yeah I'll take it from here so
the first one on the top of there derive
a penis name that just checks to see if
the key had been created already and if
not just return if not create the key
and return the name of the key which
would give you the IP NS name and if it
does exist just return the name of the
key so we're not like we're not doing
anything to to generate the IP NS name
over again or to try to resolve it
somehow we just sort of cache it and
store it so that gives us a pre
immediate thing and then the IP n has
published we just run a node J s process
an HTTP endpoint that just backgrounds
that task and talie lab will just check
in with it every few you know every so
often and then when it finally publishes
the a penis name it will it will let us
know the other trick that we did was on
resolving the IP NS name we reduced the
amount of peers needed to resolve it
from the default of 16 down to 3 which
works for our purposes once we scale up
a little more we might have to increase
that but we're gonna tune that as we go
and that's that's about it there so
that's what we're using IP best for now
and I PMS if you want to go to the next
slide and what we're in the process of
right now is migrating everything from
our custom IP custom index DB store and
IP NS to orbit DB so what that looks
like
orbit DB has different types of database
you know there's a key value database
there's a document there's a log feed
and what its gonna look like is each
tallies gonna have its own orbit DB
which is a key value store so you can
see what kind of an approximation of
what the JSON looks like down on the
bottom and then if you look at the
counts the counts is its own sort of
nested orbit DB inside of the key value
store which uses the document type index
by timestamps so it's sort of an ad-hoc
time series database kind of embedded
within the key value store and we only
store the address there and that allows
us to do things like cache it compress
them back it up things like that next
slide yeah and the cool thing about
orbit is that the address is the orbit
DB addresses you know you've seen like
slash orbit DB / qm blah blah those are
relatively consistent because they're
generated by their a multi hash of the
name of the database the type of the
database and the access control list of
the database so if two users in two
completely different parts of the world
generate those same values and create a
database they're working from the same
database and if you've ever used the
orbit chat client you've seen people
freaked out about this because they're
just well downloaded the running
localhost and then they'll just start
chatting with people everywhere and
they're just confused and they say like
I'm just running this in localhost how
is this happening and that's how so it's
kind of cool so we're looking at that as
an alternative theist names as far as
addressing the data in town next slide
you know there's obviously there's
caveats store with DB the dynamic
details are tough because you basically
have to clone the entire database if you
want to change the ACLs since they're so
so baked in and you know disclosure I
work with hiya in the orbit DB team and
smart contract based ACLs are coming
though we're not sure if we're gonna use
them we're not sure if that's the way we
want to go with tally lab directly we
sort of need to figure out a migration
path with our own key pair system and
that and how the ACS might work so we're
gonna explore that but we're just not
sure at the moment next slide and that's
that's basically it so I guess we'll
just open it up to questions now and
this is leave this up so
just know how to get in touch with us
and there's a mailing list if you're
curious about following our work you can
do that awesome thank you yeah no
problem thank you everybody
I see people clapping it's very nice
okay
questions with this one speaker view we
have a question if he is putting a chat
box that'd be great yes right okay so
Arkadiy do you have a question he said
he's in a loud place it's in the chat I
can read it if you want cool yeah the
question is is there any interest in
interrupting with other tools like Qri -
that I respond
what's Qri Qi is an IP FS based tool as
well for dealing with data sets and with
perhaps in a somewhat adjacent and but
not overlapping space you should check
it out it's curiae dot IO okay I'll
definitely check that out yeah are you
know I think the overall philosophy is
sort of the high tides rise all ships
philosophy so we want you know if orbit
improves if ipfs improves if Qri
improves then everybody gets to use it
and benefit from all the tools so it's
definitely something that we look for
sure um next question is from Johnny
okay are using RSA or EC keys for the
tally pk I they are they're out there
filming keys so difficult minutes and
algorithms are using like diffie-hellman
key exchange to drive and it's at RSA or
um that's a good question I believe it's
I'd have to look at the code again I
apologize for not
right off the top man it's all I was
looking at it it's our say there you go
go thanks dude and are those per device
you have like a device key because
unless you're actually like if you're
bridging it over to each device or each
person has the same thing same same
Drive diffie-hellman key then it's
always the potential of a security
breach that so you really want to sort
of actually have it the per device here
the paired key with that user just take
a stab it and enter this because we've
we've definitely put a lot of thought
into this and were also open to the idea
that we did it wrong but I'll try to
explain what we did in the store do you
want to try no okay so what we do on a
new instance of town lab if you've never
used the app before to open it up we
just generate random keys and you just
say okay here's your keys kind of like
what you know any any you know theory
would do or anything like that
but what we do we say if you want to use
the backup system you have to go through
this flow where about you basically
answer knowledge-based security
questions that only you would know
and we thought really hard about which
questions to ask and we might be able to
pull it up if people are curious but um
what what it means is that you answer
questions until you have 32 bytes of
deterministic information and that's
used as the seed to generate those keys
we're clear that you know don't write
these down this is stuff that should be
in your memory and we you know do some
do some normalization on those to make
it easier for people but once you get 32
bytes of a seed that's what generates
your keys and that's what we're allowing
you to open up a brand new device open
up Tali lab regenerate the keys and then
start working with your backup so there
is a risk there that somebody might know
that somebody else might know the
answers those questions or those might
get you know intercepted somehow but
that's sort of the trade-off that we're
making right now thank you I'll be ok
okay I was actually just like dumping a
bunch of questions I could cool this is
really great
should I just pick one question or I'll
I'll should I try to like ask all my
questions all at once go nuts man all
right so I'm very interested on so first
of all this is great I would love to
have these for myself I keep trying to
track my own data and it's hard like
please help us solve this problem mmm
any any interesting properties on the
data model or our easy data getting
stored on tally just raw files for now
oh I guess I have to be obnoxiousness
what do you mean by interesting
properties like what yeah so what I'm
thinking is is that in a lot of these
other services like the user or the
developer always has to fight you know
the data is structured in any of these
yeah - do you like make it up ability
etc there is this really nice
opportunity with ipfs and more
specifically at PLD for you to create
like the data model like the API which
is it that self access these data points
to make it nicer to build applications
on top of it to make it nicer to create
these obligations on top of it and.and
I'm just asking like if you are already
out there if you thought about it if
it's already there yeah yeah we've done
work and Jordan has done a lot of work
in particular making this as malleable
as possible for people so we're not
trying to shoehorn people in she did a
lot of research on you know like a
competitive analysis of all the
different other types of quantified life
apps out there and they really are
specified to one thing you know it's
like medication and symptoms app or
fitness app you know things like that
and we tried to make the data model as
malleable as possible so people can use
it to track whatever the want and
correlate whatever they want I would add
to that and say that so the basic units
and the app are there's a collection
which is just a bunch of talent so then
there's a talent which is the thing
you're tracking and then inside the
tally
is a single instance of that thing
happening we call account and each count
has data that you can associate with
associate a numeric value as I get out a
note you can add you every every count
is is a date it's a timestamp that you
can also add an end Santa which will
make it a duration right and as we go
obviously like more use cases crop
output that need more different things
and so we're constantly sort of thinking
through how we're going to add things
you can add to account and so like the
first thing is going to be multiple
numeric values so you know maybe you're
tracking your runs and you want to add
like miles to expiration aspect to that
there's a mileage a stipend maybe you
also want to add like how I felt like
some sort of you know like subjective
value so we wanna we wanna do multiple
things you can catch too but we you know
we're trying to balance that against
they can get easy to set up and not so
it's like it's like this balance you
know and what we want is for anyone to
be able to set up any kind of data that
they're looking to capture while at the
same time having stock templates where
you can just install how it's that you
know if you're if you're tracking your
runs you can assume some things about
here distance all that Sally
it's about awesome yeah exactly
yeah like just having a start of like
having a way to describe what is it
other type more than just saying this is
a schema can X transforming to Y if
another importer from schema to schema
yeah and so on and then some really good
feedback I mean you're making it would
be nice they allow users to import their
own famous keys a purse specific tally
this is how the status should look this
is what I want you to present me when I
add in the account and that would be
pretty easy for us to do so that's
that's a great idea
awesome awesome long before yeah good
are we are running a bit short on time
so
question in please yeah I'll answer
Molly's question a little bit um well
actually yeah Jordan chime in here too
we we've just started working with
behavior therapists which is kind of an
interesting one to do so you know my my
son is followed by a bunch of
psychiatrists a bunch of what they call
applied behavior analysis people and you
know they still keep data in binders and
you know draw line charts themselves
with graph paper and stuff so we're sort
of like hey check this out this might be
useful to you it's also I mean it should
be maybe implied from how we describe it
so far but it's typical and its GDP are
compliant a box like the way you
constructed it we can't actually see
anything that anyone is tracking even as
people making this app so it's a great
health care these case you know because
we don't have to do anything special
it's just already awesome um we really
are running short on time yeah I really
do want to get Molly's question in
please that was my question
yeah my question was I am sorry about
that
apologies on my side and yeah and I we
just finished out because that's more or
less a beats final two is best on the
health industry so thank you everybody
again for the opportunity to show this
to you and thank you very much this was
awesome thank you for sharing your
knowledge alright um thank you very much
and I will see everyone next week
so have a great week take care bye bye